the devastating war between Israel and
Hamas in Gaza means persistent danger
for journalists trying to cover the
conflict recent figures from the
committee to protect journalists show
Palestinian journalists made up the
majority of all journalists killed
worldwide in the past year since hamas's
October 7th Terror attacks 83
Palestinian journalists and two Israeli
journalists have been killed in the
conflict within Gaza it's now almost
exclusively Palestinians reporting on
the war on the ground Israel has refused
to let foreign journalists in to report
independently there all those reporting
from within Gaza are doing so under
extremely difficult
conditions there are numerous risks
confronting Palestinian journalists
covering the Gaza Strip particularly in
the face of Israeli measures that
indiscriminately Target everything
Palestinian be it people trees or even
stones
with each new raid that happens near my
family I can't help but feel an
overwhelming sense of anxiety the
difficulty in reaching them and ensuring
their safety adds to the complexities of
my
situation working in this field entails
navigating a mix of emotions on the one
hand the focus is on reporting the news
and political developments on the ground
on the other hand as a human being and a
journalist there's a deep desire to be
with family and share in the challenges
and dangers they
face starting from Gaza I displaced with
my family for 16 times between Gaza to
kanones uh to RAF so to be honest I move
my family a lot and because I try to
protect my family from the isra Shilling
and the isra B apartment we don't know
what to do uh my uh kids they consider
me I'm shelter and I'm not not while
they are looking to my face they think
that I'm a shelter and I'm came to
protect him from the Israeli Shing they
feel that um could do something for him
but between me and myself I do nothing
uh while I'm covering for example inside
the hospital and there is uh some injury
kids they are coming you know to the
hospital from the Israeli Shilling it's
coming to my mind this those kids could
be my kids well for more now we can
speak to Hassan baloa he's a journalist
from Gaza who's been displaced several
times and managed to leave Gaza at some
point he joins us today from Aman Jordan
ham as a journalist in Gaza you went
through the same hardships that you were
reporting on how difficult was it to do
your job under these
circumstances it's super difficult to be
honest um for many reasons um because we
are human being we are part of the
conflict U we have families um to take
care of um um that was the the time that
I spent in Gaza uh my my main concern
was about my family Their Fear uh being
displaced in different places uh taking
U or seeking um a safe place or a safer
at least than the place that I used to
be um I got displaced different places
so I have to to manage um and I have to
feed the family as well uh there is
there was a shortage of food so I had to
go and search for it it's not like
normal days that everything is settled
and everything is sorted out so I have
to do this job by by myself um along of
that we had no electricity so I had to
go and to recharge my devices my laptop
my um my mobile phone um there is there
was problem um a huge problem of the
internet connection um um I had to go
and seek the signal where isit bitter in
Internet so I can um know about other
places in Gaza Strip and to communicate
with my Outlets um and and feed them
with the with the news so um um these
the two main things that having a family
and being Po and under danger and the
same time you have to keep an eye on the
news and and and send it
along hasn't the number of journalists
killed in this conflict is extremely
high what makes it so much more
dangerous to be a journalist in Gaza
compared to other
conflicts well Gaza is a very small
place and the number of um death is
among journalists is really um uh
horrible uh this number is really high
it's un and compared with other
conflicts Gaza is very small place um
people are
overcrowded um it's it's it's very hot
because everywhere is um is targeted
there is no safe place um um or designed
as like a a really 100% safe place that
all people or civilians and journalists
can seek um uh so wherever journalists
are they they seek the news to the um um
um in in in a conflict places so that's
why that the number is very high and
there is no I mean this war is really
different um there was um in there there
were um many conflicts along the years
uh it's not the first war of course it's
the uncomparable with the with the
previous conflicts but uh this one was
really hard because it's very
destructive and very devastating right
what's your impression C of how this
conflict is being reported are news
audiences getting an accurate picture in
your opinion of what's going on in
Gaza well this is one of the main
concern that Palestinians are
Palestinian journalists who are only
allowed in uh to be in Gaza and and
foreign media and foreign crews are not
allowed to enter Gaza I mean Israel
didn't allow fore media to cover the
wars except one war in in the past times
in 2014 um but the other conflicts they
they shot the the gate and they don't
allow for journalists to come in in 2008
they didn't allow them but some of them
they sneaked through rough Crossing with
Egypt but this time nobody allowed in uh
and and nobody was there I mean like
before um the warc place um um being a
Palestinian covering the news and and
all the time is um accused that you are
biased is not easy I mean to keep uh and
to keep to keep the the being objective
is not is not easy
Mission aome thank you very much for
speaking with us again and thank you for
all your reporting over these months
during the war journalist hen Balia
there in Aman Jordan
here